Rock Paper Scissor With Python ( Workshop Bounty ) (#1354)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/rock_paper_scissors/README.md

---
Name: 'Rock Paper Scissors Game'

> Description: 'Easy rock paper scisoors game using Python'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Simple rock paper scissors game using Python'
```

Author: '@JackTDC'
---

# Rock Paper Scissor Game

> Have you ever thought about building a game with Python? Well today is your lucky day.

Reviewer 2: clearer intro

So let's get started.

![homepage](https://cloud-8p13u30yt.vercel.app/rps.png)

Here's the [live demo][final_live_demo] and [final code][final_code].

[final_live_demo]:https://repl.it/@JackTDC/Rock-paper-Scissors#main.py
[final_code]: https://repl.it/@JackTDC/Rock-paper-Scissors#main.py
[repl_it]: https://repl.it

## Part 1: Prerequisites

You should have a beginner understanding of: 
- Python

## Part 2: Setup

### Setting up your code environment on Repl.it

[Repl.it](https://repl.it) is an online code editor where you can build your game. You don't have to use Repl.it but I suggest you do as it sets everything up for you and you don't require any installations.

To get started, go to [https://repl.it/languages/python](https://repl.it/languages/python). Your coding environment will spin up in just a few seconds!

You should see something like the following:

> ![Image](https://cloud-lukrtynqs.vercel.app/repl.png)

Reviewer 2: actual alt text please

## Part 3: Making The Game
![Image](https://cloud-931ehqeec.vercel.app/coding.gif)

> ### 1)Importing Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1) Importing Modules
```

> Let us start making our game! First, we'll need to import some modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us start making our game! First, we'll need to import some modules.
```

> So in the first line type `from random import randint`. This will import the radient module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So in the first line, type
```py
from random import randint
```
This will import the randint module to your project.
```

> So in the first line, type `from random import randint`. This will import the radient module.

Reviewer 2: spelling

> ### 2)Giving values to the variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2) Giving values to the variables
```

> First let's make a list for all th entries a plyer could enter,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First let's make a list for all the entries a player could enter,
```

`t = ["r","p","s"]`

> Now we have to write a command so the computer chooses rock, paper or scissors randomly!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have to write a code so the computer chooses rock, paper or scissors randomly!
```

Reviewer: Its a code actually and not a command

> `computer = t[randint(0,2)]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
computer = t[randint(0,2)]
```
```

Author: I didn't understand the change? can you explain

Reviewer: As it is a ONE LINE code, so i have suggested that u make it a code block. Also, the 'py' written there is syntax highlighting.

> Now we will set the player to false so we can keep the game in a loop to do that just type, `Player = False`. Now you have to write some code so the player could enter his/her name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we will set a variable to false and by using it in a `while` loop, we can keep the game playing infinitely! To do that , just type `Player = False`. Now you have to write some code so the player can enter his/her name. 
```

> Also to make a score system enter the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also to make a score system, we'll write the following code:
```

```
You = 0
PC = 0 
```
So this is the code so far:
```
from random import randint

t = ["r", "p", "s"]

computer = t[randint(0,2)]

player = False

> name = input("Enter your name:")

Reviewer: There was no description for this code? if it is a beginner, he/she/they might get confused as how it suddenly got ended up here. Please make sure you check that.

Author: line 68?

Reviewer: yes, u have not mentioned anything above related to getting input

Reviewer 2: ^^^^^^

print("Type 'reset' to reset score")

You = 0
PC = 0
```

### 3)Keeping the game in a loop
![Image](https://cloud-nmra250be.vercel.app/loop.gif)

> For this game I will using `while` loop but you can also use `for` loop! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this, I'll use a `while` loop but you can also use `for` loops! 
```

> So for starters type,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we'll just type,
```

```
While Player == False: 
```
Now we let the player choose either `Rock` `Paper` or `Scissors`

There are 5 possibilities:
1. The player chooses `Rock`
2. The player chooses `Paper`
3. The player chooses `Scissors`
4. The word entered is invalid
5. The player enters `reset`

### 4) Producing separate outcomes for all possibilities

We are going to use if elif & else statement to produce separate outcomes for all possibilities!

Enter the following code:
```

> while player == False:

Reviewer: This is becoming a huge chunk of code, you might split it into small parts and explain them separately.

Author: Most of the code is repetition so explaining it separately will just make the workshop wordy

Reviewer: If most of the 'SAME' code is repeatng, then i suggest u to make it a seperate function and call that function at required places

Reviewer: otherwise this code is too lengthy to be written in one go

            print("You lose!","Paper covers Rock")
            PC+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
        else:
            print("You win!","Rock smashes Scissors")
            You+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
    elif player == "p":
        if computer == "s":
            print("You lose!", "Scissors cut Paper")
            PC+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
        else:
            print("You win!","Paper covers Rock")
            You+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
    elif player == "s":
        if computer == "r":
            print("You lose...","Rock smashes Scissors")
            PC+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
        else:
            print("You win!", "Scissors cuts Paper")
            You+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
    elif player == "reset":
      You=1*0
      PC=1*0
      print("The score has been reset!")
    else:
        print("That's not a valid play. Please select a valid option!")
```
#### Explanation:

> 1. The first if statement declares a tie.

Reviewer: Also, just like above, please make it more elaborate.

Author: Most of the code is repetition so explaining it separately will just make the workshop wordy

2. In the first three elif statement, the player can either win or lose and the points are given respectively.
3. In the fourth elif statement, the player could reset the score.
4. Last else statement occurs only when the player enters a invalid word.

### 5) Keeping the loop going

> Now as we have completed codin the game we need it to be looped infinite number of times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now as we have completed building the game we need it to run infinitely.
```

To do this you just need to add the following statement after the `while` statement,
```

> player = False

Reviewer: I think this is not required as u have already defined the player to be false previously, yeah as im doubtful about it, please verify that

Author: This keeps the loop going if you remove this the game will close itself after 1 round

Reviewer: Ok sure! I just had a doubt. No problem at all!

```
This will instantly trigger the loop and keep the game going.

And at last, you need to add the following command so the computer chooses a different outcome every time
```

> computer = t[randint(0,2)]

Reviewer: this was defined previously too right?

Author: but this wasn't in al loop so if we remove this one the computer will choose only one thing every time (you can remove it and see)

Reviewer: No problem at all!

        else:
            print("You win!","Paper covers Rock")
            You+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
    elif player == "s":
        if computer == "r":
            print("You lose...","Rock smashes Scissors")
            PC+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
        else:
            print("You win!", "Scissors cuts Paper")
            You+=1
            print('Computer =',PC)
            print(name,'=',You)
    elif player == "reset":
      You=1*0
      PC=1*0
      print("The score has been reset!")
    else:
        print("That's not a valid play. Please select a valid option!")
    player = False
    computer = t[randint(0,2)]

```

### 6) The End
**And congratulations! You just made your own game using Python!**

![Image](https://cloud-b32jvmwl1.vercel.app/congo.gif)

If you haven't created an account on [repl.it](https://repl.it), make sure you do so to save this wonderful piece of creation!

If you are facing difficulties signing up watch [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mtqp4CUepk0).

Here are some things which you can do:

- Consider changing and adding more features!

> - Making the game a two player game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Making it a two player game.
```

> - Make the game only of 3 turns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make the game only of 3 turns instead of running it infinitely.
```

- You can give the text a typewriter effect. (If you dont know how to do it watch [this][typewritter] video)

**Examples on how people have customized it:**

- [Fayd](https://repl.it/@FaisalSayed1/Rock-Paper-Python#main.py)
- [CrazyBlackStone](https://repl.it/repls/ThornyWoozyBlogs#main.py)
- [Vedant](https://repl.it/@Vedantutekar812/BEASTEXAUDOS#main.py)

[typewritter]: https://youtu.be/2h8e0tXHfk0

Now that you have finished building your game, you should share your beautiful creation with other people! Remember, it's as easy as giving them your URL!

You probably know the best ways to get in touch with your friends and family, but if you want to share your project with the worldwide Hack Club community there is no better place to do that than on Slack.

1. In a new tab, open and follow [these directions][slack] to signup for our Slack.
2. Then, post the link to the [`#scrapbook`](https://hackclub.slack.com/messages/scrapbook) channel to share it with everyone!

[slack]: https://slack.hackclub.com/

> 

Reviewer: are these extra spaces below this line? u may remove them if they aren't required! :smile:
